that's right come on aboard
please enter the submarine slowly and
make yourself comfortable
today we're going deep into the dark
parts of the ocean
for the ultimate showdown shonosaurus
and
megalodon time to see how shony and meg
stack up against each other
first round age look at shony the
largest marine reptile
coming out of nowhere this marine
reptile looks a bit
tired since it traveled all night and
got here all the way from the late
triassic period
about 215 million years ago back then it
was all dinosaurs
plus some crocodiles oh look meg got
here on time too
she looks a bit more fresh and relaxed
probably because she's way younger than
her contender
she started her dominance over the ocean
20 million years ago
will she be able to stay on the throne
after this duel
make win extinct about two and a half
million years ago
or at least we'd think she did only
about five percent of the ocean has been
explored
so spreading stories about an underwater
giant shark
is pretty easy who knows what's really
hiding down there
even though they're both extinct
dinosaurs like shoney are way older
meg's a baby compared to her sorry meg
one point goes to your older challenger
i bet shony's got some awesome stories
to tell
next round length ah good old meg
she's the largest shark that ever lived
on our planet around 60 feet long
there aren't any full fossils of her to
get a really accurate measurement
scientists that study modern sharks can
guess her length by her epic tooth size
joanie was a little bit shorter around
50 feet
she kind of looks like a bigger bonier
version of a dolphin
dolphins can grow up to 13 feet long
even the biggest dolphin the orca looks
tiny
it's only 30 feet long one point goes to
meg for being huge
and we're tied up at one apiece round
three
teeth meg was one of the greatest
threats in the ocean with
teeth similar to those of a modern white
shark
scary symmetrical triangular insanely
sharp
and up to seven inches long meg had
around 276 teeth
in five rows that sounds super scary but
some modern sharks have over 300 teeth
but they're not all ready for action
some are fully grown
some are still growing up sharks teeth
are not that strong so
they fall out a lot which is not that
big a deal like it is for humans
they produce new teeth all the time so
they can replace the ones that get worn
down
get this meg probably worked her way
through about 40
000 teeth over her lifetime johnny
unfortunately won't be able to defend
herself with teeth in this duel
because she doesn't have any researchers
believe that younger shonies had teeth
because they needed some help getting
food and fending off rivals
when they got bigger and older they
didn't need them anymore
sorry shoney this round isn't even close
meg takes the lead two to one
next round who can eat more scientists
believe meg
ate around 500 pounds of food
every day her teeth tell us she didn't
exactly love the salad bar
with a mouth almost 10 feet wide meg had
the most powerful bite of
all animals on our planet that way she
didn't have to be too picky
she could munch on bigger ocean animals
like whales
giant turtles seals or any other marine
mammal that got
you know too close no wonder she weighed
about 140
000 pounds because of her lack of teeth
shoney preferred animals with
softer bodies like smaller fish squids
that sort of stuff
we don't really know how much she ate
every day but with an approximate weight
of around sixty thousand pounds
i mean she's heavier than two sperm
whales or three elephants
but still peanuts compared to the mighty
may
good for you shoney keep up the good
work with all that soft food
but unfortunately meigs eating up the
points in this competition
three to one you don't really want to
mess with someone who can eat a whole
whale for breakfast
round five looks
scientists have reconstructed meg to
look like a bigger
just a little more dangerous version of
a white shark
they were so similar that lots of people
thought the white shark was meg's
great-great-great grandkid
but the truth is that they're not
related at all
meg was the last member of a completely
different lineage of sharks
she had a shorter nose and a flatter jaw
that almost looked like it got squished
somehow
like the blue shark she had really long
petrol fins
to support her size and weight shoney
looks like a tubby bit quirky and way
bigger version of a dolphin
she has four flippers and a longer skull
and what's interesting
is that she doesn't have a dorsal or
sailfit
shony can't do any of those cool tricks
and maneuvers the dolphins do
that part also probably doesn't help
when she meets another hungry dinosaur
she can't dodge out of the way so easily
still
shawnee's big enough not to have to
worry about that kind of stuff
step aside meg stop hogging the
spotlight we want to see more of this
cute
funny dolphin-like creature one point
for shoney
she's catching up three to two
[Applause]
round six who has a cooler name
shonosaurus means lizard from the
shoshone mountains
why because it's a lizard from the
you get the picture cool name huh
megalodon
on the other hand means large tooth yeah
sorry meg it's one point for griffith
wait a minute wrong video
we're all tied up at three to three
round seven who traveled more
just like modern sharks meg's skeleton
isn't made of bone
it's made out of cartilage that's the
stuff your ear and nose are made out of
so no matter how much you look for them
you're never going to find
any of meg's bones or only fossils are
actually teeth
since they're made of dentin in her 18
million years of existence
meg traveled a lot her teeth have been
found all over the globe
she even went on vacation to tropical
and sub-tropical waters
but the one place she never went was to
antarctica
joni was a wanderer too her fossils were
first found near las vegas
no it's not what you think she really
wasn't all about the parties and shows
vegas was all under water back then she
too
took long trips along the coast visited
different countries
enjoyed fancy seafood buffets all over
the world
pretty good life overall let's give meg
this one
for making it to almost every continent
she leads
four to three round eight
who was more popular seeing shoni swim
by could easily scare away
other sea creatures she's pretty big
after all but
pretty soon they'd see that this reptile
wasn't that dangerous
okay squid small fish they weren't big
fans
but medium-sized water creatures soon
figured out they were too big for her
so they could be friends except for you
know the kraken
a colossal squid and legendary sea
monster with extremely powerful
tentacles
the story goes that the kraken had
something to do with the disappearance
of some members of shoni's family
so let's just say they're not exactly
bffs
meg introvert loner she comes to the
party and stays in the corner
not talking to anyone and there weren't
exactly a lot of animals
lining up to ask her to dance it'd
probably be their last
when you're that high up in the food
chain you're never gonna be too popular
shoney makes a comeback with the
popularity round
and it's all tied up at four
[Applause]
well that means both of our contestants
are going to share the
wait meg looks furious you can see her
gritting her teeth
getting ready to finish this contest
once and for all
shoni smiles peacefully she's not used
to big animals going after
so she doesn't think meg would actually
do anything crazy
as long as the submarine doesn't get too
close
okay wait shoney's swimming towards meg
they're gonna go at it no shony's
telling meg she can have the prize
wow christ is averted meg does not like
to lose
shoney you certainly deserve the
pacifist of the pacific trophy
uh-oh meg doesn't look too happy about
that
better strap in guys here we go